#Overview

This project requires relatively little interaction with the openEHR CDR. We will be working primarily with the Better (Marand ThinkEHR CDR which expects Basic Authentication.

At some point we may also try to work with a different CDR such as ehrBase or Ethercis. These have slightly different Authentication approaches but that can come later.

## openEHR Glossary

### Clinical Data Repository (CDR)

A CDR is essentially a smart datastore that understands openEHR-compliant health data. All accees to the CDR is via an API, normally REST. All datasets are defined by uploading openEHR `templates`, rather then modifying datatables directly. THe templates also act as validation schema.

### Compositions

All openEHR data is committed to the CDR as an object called a `composition`, normally serialised in JSON or XML. The CDR validates the data against a specific `template` and will raise errors if there are validation issues, otherwise it assigns a unique composition `uid` to the committed data.

A composition can be retreived directly via its 'uid' but may also be queryed in a more granular fashion via 'Archetype Query Language (AQL).

All compositions are versioned and may be updated or deleted but all previous versions are always retained, for medico-legal reasons.

### Templates and archetypes

Where compositions are the data instances in openEHR, templates are the design schema which say how a valid composition instance must be constructed. Templates, in turn are made up of smaller granular content definitions called archetypes. An archetype is a design schema for a healthcare record component like and Allergy record entry, Medication, Diagnosis or Lab Test. These are developed separately by clinicians and other domain users using specialised tooling. The tooling ultimately generates a template definition file known as an `operational template` which is uploaded to the CDR as the technical dataset definition. In most cases, the CDR can make use of this without any need for re-engineering of the base internal idata models or database.

If this sounds a little weird, don't worrry, it foxes most people!! However it does work, at scale e.g in Moscow where there is a CDR with 7 million records

### EHR object

When a composition is stored it nmust be assigned to an EHR object, which is the top-level container for all of the health records for a single patient.

When a new patient is registered with the CDR, a new EHR object is created, assigning a new unique `ehr_id` uid to that EHR, normally associating it with some real-world identfier like an NHS number or hospital number. When interacting with the CDR, the `ehr_id` is normally used.

### Querying via AQL

CDRS are always queried logically by traversing the object tree of EHR through Compositions and into the detail defined by archetypes and templates. This is normally done by using Archetype Query Language, which looks like a mashup of Xquery and SQL. It is the job of the CDR builder to translate this logical query to whatever querying method is used by the underlying physical database. This makes AQL independent of the underlying database.

AQL returns a structured json object known as a 'resultset' whose exact structure is defined by the AQL itself. It can return whole objects as well as single scalar values

## Ortho-proms Task list

1. Setup the correct authentication for subsequent calls by passing a Basic Auth string or session token in the headers and test that the CDR Rest API is accessible and the correct authentication is set by listing the templates available on the CDR

2. Commit an openEHR composition object via a POST /composition call

3. Read back the committed composition object via the GET /composition call

4. Query scalar data for a single patient via a POST /query call with an 'AQL' string

5. Query scalar data for all patients via a POST /query call with an 'AQL' string

6. Upload a modified operational template

7. Generate a JSON web-template from the operational template

8. Generate an example composition from the operational template

9. Create a new EHR object for a new subject (patient)



 

